<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="before-restore">
<title>Before you restore</title> 
<body>

<p><b>Step 1.</b> Retrieve the backup files using your chosen backup solution and save them to a 
folder on your Ansible server. If you have used timestamps in the naming of your backup files, you can 
use them to determine the chronological order. If you used the <codeph>backup.sh</codeph> script specifying a date prefix,
you can use that to identify the matching set of backup files. You should 
choose the files in the following reverse chronological order, from the most recent to the oldest file. 
Make sure you restore both the <codeph>*.tgz</codeph> and the <codeph>*.vars.tgz</codeph> files.</p> 

<ol>
<li>DTR images backup</li>
<li>DTR metadata backup</li>
<li>UCP backup</li>
<li>Swarm backup</li>
</ol>

<p>In this example, we will assume a set of backup files stored in <codeph>/root/restore</codeph> that were created specifying a date prefix. These will have names like
<codeph>2018_04_17_151734_swarm.tgz</codeph>, <codeph>2018_04_17_151734_ucp.tgz</codeph>, etc and the corresponding 
<codeph>.vars.tgz</codeph> files.</p>

<p><b>Step 2:</b> Retrieve the DTR replica ID, the DTR version and the UCP version</p>
<p>To retrieve the ID of the replica that was backed up, as well as the version of DTR, you need to extract the data from the <codeph>.vars.tgz</codeph> file 
associated with the archive of the DTR metadata. You can retrieve this as follows:     
</p>

<codeblock>[root@hpe2-ansible ops]# tar -Oxf /root/restore/2018_04_17_151734_dtr_meta.vars.tgz meta.yml
backup_node="hpe-dtr01"
replica_id="<b>ad5204e8a4d0</b>"
backup_source=""
ucp_version=""
dtr_version="<b>2.4.3</b>"
</codeblock>

<codeblock>[root@hpe2-ansible ops]# tar -Oxf /root/restore/2018_04_17_151734_ucp.vars.tgz meta.yml
backup_node="hpe-ucp01"
replica_id=""
backup_source=""
ucp_version="<b>2.2.7</b>"
dtr_version=""</codeblock>

<p>Take note of the replica ID (ad5204e8a4d0), the version of DTR (2.4.3) and the version of UCP (2.2.7).</p>

<p><b>Step 3:</b> Populate the <codeph>group_vars/backups</codeph> file</p>   


<codeblock>backup_swarm: "/root/restore/2018_04_17_151734_swarm.tgz"
backup_ucp: "/root/restore/2018_04_17_151734_ucp.tgz"
backup_dtr_meta: "/root/restore/2018_04_17_151734_dtr_meta.tgz"
backup_dtr_data: "/root/restore/2018_04_17_151734_dtr_data.tgz"
backup_dtr_id: "ad5204e8a4d0"
backup_dest: "/root/backups"
backup_server: &lt;IP of your ansible box></codeblock> 

<p>You should populate your <codeph>group_vars/backups</codeph> file as above, with the <codeph>backup_dtr_id</codeph> variable
containing the value you retrieved in the preceding step as <codeph>replica_id="<b>ad5204e8a4d0</b>"</codeph>.</p>    

<p><b>Step 4:</b> Verify that your <codeph>group_vars/vars</codeph> file specifies the correct versions of DTR and UCP.</p>    

<p>The playbooks use the versions of UCP and DTR as specified in your <codeph>group_vars/vars</codeph> file to restore your backups.
You must ensure that the versions specified in your current <codeph>group_vars/vars</codeph> file correspond to the versions in the backups as determined above.
</p>

<codeblock>[root@hpe2-ansible ops]# cat group_vars/vars | grep dtr_version
dtr_version: '2.4.3'</codeblock>
<codeblock>
[root@hpe2-ansible ops]# cat group_vars/vars | grep ucp_version
ucp_version: '2.2.7'</codeblock>    

<p><b>Step 5:</b> Restore UCP admin credentials if required</p>
<p>You must ensure that the UCP admin credentials in your current <codeph>group_vars/vars</codeph> file are those
that were in effect when you generated the backup files. If they have changed since then, you must restore the original 
credentials for the duration of the restore procedure.</p>

<p><b>Step 6:</b> Restore your inventory (<codeph>vm_hosts</codeph>)</p> 

<p>Your inventory must reflect the environment that was present when the backup files were created. 
You can find a copy of the inventory as it was when the backup was taken in the  <codeph>*.vars.tgz</codeph> files. </p> 

</body>
</topic>
