<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="config-yum">
			<title>Configure the yum repositories</title>
			<body>
				<p>
					<ph>The Red Hat packages
                                                required during the deployment of the solution come
                                                from two repositories: <codeph>rhel-7-server-rpms
                                                </codeph>and <codeph>rhel 7-server-extras-rpms</codeph>.
                                                The first repository can be found on the Red Hat DVD
                                                but the second cannot. There are two options, with
                                                both options requiring a Red Hat Network account.
                                                Logon in your VM template using SSH using the
                                                credentials you configured for the root account and
                                                implement one of the two options below:</ph>
				</p>
				<p>
					<ph><b>Option
                                                  1:</b> Use Red Hat subscription manager to
                                                register your system. This is the easiest way and
                                                will automatically give you access to the official
                                                Red Hat repositories. Use the
                                                  <codeph>subscription-manager register</codeph> command
                                                as follows.</ph>
				</p>
				<p/>
				<!--<table>
					<row>
						<entry>-->
							<pre># subscription-manager register --auto-attach</pre>
						<!--</entry>
					</row>
				</table>-->
				<p/>
				<p>
					<ph>If you are behind a proxy, you must configure this before running the above command to register.</ph>
				</p>
				<p/>
				<!--<table>
					<row>
						<entry>-->
							<pre># subscription-manager config --server.proxy_hostname=&lt;proxy IP&gt; --server.proxy_port=&lt;proxy port&gt;</pre>
						<!--</entry>
					</row>
				</table>-->
				<p/>
				<p>
					<ph>Verify that you don't
                                                have the issue described here: <xref format="html" scope="external" href="https://access.redhat.com/solutions/3317671">https://access.redhat.com/solutions/3317671</xref>
                                                by entering the following command.</ph>
				</p>
				<!--<table>
					<row>
						<entry>-->
							<pre># yum repolist</pre>
						<!--</entry>
					</row>
				</table>-->
				<pre>If you have the issue, fix it with the following command</pre>
				<!--<table>
					<row>
						<entry>-->
							<pre># subscription-manager repos --disable=rhel-7-server-rt-beta-rpms</pre>
						<!--</entry>
					</row>
				</table>-->
				<p>The playbooks will later automatically enable the
                                                <codeph>extras</codeph> repository on the VMs that need
                                        it.</p>
				<p>
					<ph>
						<b/>
					</ph>
				</p>
				<p>
					<ph><b>Option
                                                  2:</b> Use an internal repository. Instead of
                                                pulling the packages from Red Hat, you can create
                                                copies of the required repositories on a dedicated
                                                node. You can then configure the package manager to
                                                pull the packages from the dedicated node. Your
                                                  <codeph>/etc/yum.repos.d/redhat.repo</codeph> could
                                                look as follows.</ph>
				</p>
				<p/>
				<!--<table>
					<row>
						<entry>-->
							<pre>[RHEL7-Server] name=Red Hat Enterprise Linux $releasever - $basearch baseurl=http://yourserver.example.com/rhel-7-server-rpms/ enabled=1 gpgcheck=1 gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-redhat-release [RHEL7-Server-extras] name=Red Hat Enterprise Linux Extra pkg $releasever - $basearch baseurl=http://yourserver.example.com/rhel-7-server-extras-rpms/ enabled=1 gpgcheck=1 gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-redhat-release</pre>
						<!--</entry>
					</row>
				</table>-->
				<pre/>
				<p>
					<ph>The following articles
                                                explain how you can create a local mirror of the Red
                                                Hat repositories and how to share them.<xref format="html" scope="external" href="https://access.redhat.com/solutions/23016">https://access.redhat.com/solutions/23016</xref></ph>
					<ph>
						<xref format="html" scope="external" href="https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7227">https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7227</xref>
					</ph>
				</p>
				<p>
					<ph>Before converting the VM to a template, you will need to setup access for the Ansible host to configure the individual VMs. This is explained in the next section.</ph>
				</p>
				<p/>
			</body>
		</topic>
