<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="create-rhel-template">
			<title>Create the Red Hat Linux Template</title>
			<body>
				<p><ph>The section explains how to
                                                create the Red Hat Linux VM Template that you will
                                                use as the base for all your nodes. In order to
                                                create a VM Template you will first create a Virtual
                                                Machine with the OS installed and then convert the
                                                Virtual Machine to a VM Template. Since the goal of
                                                automation is to remove as many repetitive tasks as
                                                possible, the VM Template is created as lean as
                                                possible, with any additional software installs
                                                and/or system configuration performed subsequently
                                                using Ansible. </ph>It would be possible to
                                        automate the creation of the template. However, as this is a
                                        one-off task, it is appropriate to do it manually. The steps
                                        to create a VM template manually are described below.</p>
				<ol>
					<li>
						<ph>Log in to vCenter and create a new Virtual Machine with the following characteristics:</ph>
					</li>
				</ol>
				<ol>
					<li>
						<ol>
							<li>
								<ph>Guest OS Family: Linux, Guest OS Version: Red Hat Enterprise Linux (64-bit)</ph>
							</li>
						</ol>
						<ul>
							<li>
								<ph>Hard Disk size: 50GB, (Thin provisioning)</ph>
							</li>
							<li>
								<ph>A single network controller connected to the network or VLAN of your choice. All VMs will connect to this same network.</ph>
							</li>
							<li>
								<ph>Optionally you can remove the floppy drive</ph>
								<ph/>
							</li>
						</ul>
					</li>
					<li>
						<ph>Install Red Hat Enterprise 7</ph>
						<ol>
							<li>
								<ph>select a language which is selected by Docker</ph>
							</li>
							<li>
								<ph>For the
                                                  software selection, choose <b>Infrastructure
                                                  Server</b> as the base environment and add
                                                  the <b>Guest Agents</b> from the lists
                                                  of add-ons available for this environment. The
                                                  Infrastructure Server environment is selected here
                                                  versus the Minimal Install because Customization
                                                  of Linux guest operating systems requires that
                                                  Perl is installed in the Linux guest operating
                                                  system.</ph>
							</li>
							<li>
								<ph>Configure the network settings so that you can later access the VM using SSH. Specify and IP address for the network interface, a default gateway, DNSs settings and possibly HTTP/HTTS proxy that apply in your environment.</ph>
							</li>
							<li>
								<ph>Specify a password for the root account and optionally created an admin user</ph>
							</li>
							<li>
								<ph>wait for the installation to finish and the VM to reboot.</ph>
							</li>
						</ol>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</body>
		</topic>
