<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="deploy-plugin">
	<title>Deploying the vSphere Volume PlugIn</title>
	<body>
		<p><b>Editors Note</b>: I had attempted to add the vSphere Volume plugin to the ESXi golden
			image but it does not work. I have reported this issue to the Image Streamer team. The
			ESXi 6.5 image can't be modified. All changes are lost as soon as it reboots. The
			existing Image Streamer capture ESXi scripts to create golden images which are supposed
			to remove all customizations also do not work. The only thing I could get to work is
			creating the "vanilla" ESXi 6.5 golden image and using the existing Image Streamer
			scripts to do the customization. Therefore, the addition of the vSphere Volume Plugin is
			not automated. Using the vSphere Update Manager seemed like the best option however even
			that requires additional steps as the package provided by VMware doesn't restart the
			hostd service and the plugin is unusable until you do that.</p>
		<p/>
		<p>After the new ESXi host is imported into vCenter, you can use the vSphere Update manager
			to install the vSphere Volume PlugIn.</p>
		<ul>
			<li>From vSphere Web Client, select your ESXi host</li>
			<li>Select the Update Manager tab</li>
		</ul>

		<ul>
			<li>Attach the baseline "ESXi 6.5 Docker Patch Extension" to your host.</li>
		</ul>

		<ul>
			<li>Select Scan for Updates and choose Patches and Extensions</li>
		</ul>

		<ul>
			<li>Select Remediate - you should see the VDVS_Driver BuiltIn</li>
		</ul>

		<ul>
			<li>Keep the defaults for the Advanced and remediation options, click Finish. It doesn't
				refresh automatically but you can select anything else and return to this page and
				it should show that host is now compliant.</li>
		</ul>

		<p>The Docker Extension is now installed on the ESXi host but you have to restart the
			service in order to use it. Going back to the iLO session, you can select Alt F1 to go
			to the CLI and restart the hostd service. After logging in, enter</p>
		<ul>
			<li>/etc/init.d/hostd restart</li>
		</ul>

		<p>If you use the esxcli storage guestvol command you can now see the status.</p>

	</body>
</topic>
