<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
		<topic id="docker-ee">
			<title>About Docker Enterprise Edition</title>
			<body>
				<p>Docker Enterprise Edition (EE) is a leading enterprise containers-as-a-service (CaaS) software platform for IT that manages and secures diverse applications across disparate infrastructure, both on-premises and in the cloud. Docker EE provides integrated container management and security from development to production. Enterprise-ready capabilities like multi-architecture orchestration and secure software supply chain give IT teams the ability to manage and secure containers without breaking the developer experience.</p>
				<p>Docker EE provides:</p>
				<ul>
					<li>
						<ph>Integrated management of all application resources from a single web admin UI.</ph>
					</li>
					<li>
						<ph>Frictionless deployment of applications and Compose files to production in a few clicks.</ph>
					</li>
					<li>
						<ph>Multi-tenant system with granular role-based access control (RBAC) and LDAP/AD integration.</ph>
					</li>
					<li>
						<ph>Self-healing application deployment with the ability to apply rolling application updates.</ph>
					</li>
					<li>
						<ph>End-to-end security model with secrets management, image signing and image security scanning.</ph>
					</li>
				</ul>
				<p>More information about Docker Enterprise
                                Edition can be found at: <xref format="html" scope="external" href="https://www.docker.com/enterprise-edition">https://www.docker.com/enterprise-edition</xref></p>
			</body>
		</topic>
