<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="introduction">
	<title>Introduction</title>
	<body>
		<section id="introduction-section">
			<p>HPE Enterprise Containers as a Service with Docker Enterprise Edition (EE) is a
complete solution from Hewlett Packard Enterprise that includes all the hardware,
software, professional services, and support you need to deploy a
containers-as-a-service (CaaS) platform, allowing you to get up and running quickly
and efficiently. The solution takes the HPE Synergy infrastructure and combines it
with Docker’s enterprise-grade container platform, popular open source tools, along
with deployment and advisory services from HPE Pointnext.
			</p>
			<p>HPE Enterprise Containers as a Service with Docker EE is ideal for customers
migrating legacy applications to containers, transitioning to a container DevOps
development model or needing a hybrid environment to support container and
non-containerized applications on a common VM platform. HPE Enterprise Containers as
a Service with Docker EE provides a solution for IT operations, addressing the need
to have a production ready environment that is very easy to deploy and manage.
			</p>
			<p>This document describes the best practices for deploying and operating HPE Enterprise
Containers as a Service with Docker EE. It describes how to automate the
provisioning of the environment using a set of Ansible playbooks. It also outlines a
set of manual steps to harden, secure and audit the overall status of the
system.
			</p>
			<note type="note">
				<p>The Ansible playbooks described in this document are only intended for Day 0
deployment automation of Docker EE on HPE Synergy.</p>
				<p>The Ansible playbooks described in this document are not directly supported by
HPE and are intended as an example of deploying Docker EE on HPE Synergy. We
welcome input from the user community via GitHub to help us prioritize all
future bug fixes and feature enhancements.
				</p>
			</note>
		</section>
	</body>
</topic>
