<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="lifecycle">
  <title>Solution lifecycle management</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>Introduction</title>
      <p>Lifecycle management with respect to this solution refers to the maintenance and management
        of software and hardware of various components that make up the solution stack. Lifecycle
        management is required to keep the solution up-to-date and ensure that the latest versions
        of the software are running to provide optimal performance, security and fix any existing
        defects within the product.</p>
      <p>In this section, we will cover life cycle management of the different components that are
        used in this solution. </p>
      <p>The lifecycle of the following stacks need to be maintained and managed. </p>
      <ol>
        <li>Monitoring Tools (Splunk or Prometheus and Grafana</li>
        <li>Docker Enterprise Edition Environment</li>
        <li>Virtual Machine Operating systems</li>
        <li>Synergy environment</li>
      </ol>
      <p>The general practice and recommendation is to follow a bottom-up approach for updating all
        components of the environment and making sure the dependencies are met. In our solution, we
        would start with Synergy and end with the monitoring environment. If all components are not
        being updated at the same time, the same approach can be followed – updating only the
        components that require updates while adhering to the interdependencies of each component
        that is being updated.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Synergy environment</title>
      <p>HPE Synergy Composer powered by HPE OneView provides fast, reliable, and simplified
        firmware and driver management across many HPE Synergy components. HPE OneView manages
        firmware to reduce manual interactions and errors, in addition to minimizing downtime.
        Firmware updates of management appliances and shared infrastructure are nondisruptive to the
        production workload. </p>
      <p>More information is available at <xref
          href="https://support.hpe.com/hpsc/doc/public/display?docId=c05212310" format="html">Best
          Practices for HPE Synergy Firmware and Driver Updates</xref></p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>VMware Components</title>
      <p>The solution in this deployment guide is built on VMware vSphere and leverages VMware ESXi
        and vCenter.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>vSphere Docker Volume Service Plug-in</title>
      <p> vSphere Docker Volume service plug-in is part of an open source project by VMware that
        enables running stateful containers by providing persistent Docker volumes leveraging
        existing storage technology from VMware. There are two parts to the plug-in, namely, client
        software and server software (see Table <xref href="lifecycle.dita#lifecycle/vdvs-components-table-conref" type="table"/>). Every version of the plug-in that is released
        includes both pieces of software and it is imperative that the version number installed on
        the client side and server side are the same. </p>
      
      <p>When updating the Docker Volume service plug-in, ensure the ESXi version you are
    running is supported and that the client software is compatible with the operating system.</p>


<table id="vdvs-components-table-conref" conref="vdvs-components-table.dita#vdvs-components-table/vdvs-components-table-content">
	<title>vSphere Docker Volume service components</title>
	<tgroup cols="2">
		<tbody>
			<row>
				<entry/>
			</row>
		</tbody>
	</tgroup>
</table>
      
      
    </section> 
  </body>
</topic>
