<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="monitoring-config-sysdig">
<title>Sysdig configuration</title>
<body>
<p>The playbook <codeph>playbooks/install_sysdig.yml</codeph> is used to automate the
configuration of the SaaS setup. By default, the playbook is commented out in
<codeph>site.yml</codeph> and must be explicitly enabled. An access key variable must be set
in the <codeph>group_vars/vault</codeph> file as detailed in <xref
href="monitoring-config-sysdig.dita#monitoring-config-sysdig/sysdig-config-table-content"
/>.</p>

<table id="sysdig-config-table-content" frame="none">
<title>Sysdig variables</title>
<!--<colgroup xmlns:ac="ac" xmlns:ri="ri">
<col/>
<col/>
</colgroup>-->

<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colnum="1" colname="c1" align="left"/>
<colspec colnum="2" colname="c2" align="left"/>
<colspec colnum="3" colname="c3" align="left"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Variable</entry>
<entry>File</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>sysdig_access_key</entry>
<entry><b>group_vars/vault</b></entry>
<entry>After the activation of your account on the Sysdig portal, you will be 
provided with your access key which will be used by the playbooks to install the agent on each UCP, DTR and Linux worker node, 
as well as the NFS, logger and load balancer VMs.
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>sysdig_agent</entry>
<entry>group_vars/vars</entry>
<entry>Specifies the URL to the Sysdig Linux native install agent, for example, <codeph>https://s3.amazonaws.com/download.draios.com/stable/install-agent</codeph></entry>
</row>    
<row>
<entry>sysdig_tags</entry>
<entry>group_vars/vars</entry>
<entry>Tagging your hosts is highly recommended. Tags allow you to sort the nodes of your infrastructure 
   into custom groups in Sysdig Monitor. Specify location, role, and owner in the format: <codeph>'location:City,role:Enterprise CaaS on Synergy,owner:Customer Name'</codeph></entry>
</row>    
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>


<note type="note"><p>By default, you must have outgoing port 6666 open in your firewall, to allow data to flow
to <codeph>collector.sysdigcloud.com</codeph>. You can configure the agent to use a different port by setting the 
<codeph>collector_port</codeph> parameter in the configuration file <codeph>/opt/draios/etc/dragent.yaml</codeph>. For more
information, see the relevant Sysdig documentation at 
<xref href="https://support.sysdig.com/hc/en-us/articles/204205969" format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
   
<p>If you are using a proxy, it must be configured to be "fully-transparent". Non-transparent proxies will not allow the agent to connect.</p>   
</note>

<p>Using the Sysdig software as a solution (SaaS) website <xref
href="https://app.sysdigcloud.com" format="html" scope="external"/>, you are able to view, analyze and
inspect various different dashboards.</p>

</body>
</topic>
