<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="new-features-mvi2">
<title>New features</title>
<body>

<section>
<title>Docker EE 2.0 and Kubernetes</title> 

<p>Docker Enterprise Edition (EE) 2.0 is the only platform that manages and secures applications on Kubernetes 
  in multi-Linux, multi-OS and multi-cloud customer environments. With Docker EE 2.0, you get simplified workflows for the day-to-day management of a Kubernetes environment 
  while still having access to native Kubernetes APIs, CLIs, and interfaces.</p>  
 
<note type="note">Docker EE 2.0 installs Kubernetes version 1.8. In this release, UCP uses its own RBAC system which is not compatible with Kubernetes RBAC.</note>  

<p>For more information on Docker EE 2.0, see 
  <xref href="https://blog.docker.com/2018/04/announcing-docker-enterprise-edition-2-0/" format="html" scope="external"/>
  and <xref href="https://www.docker.com/products/docker-enterprise" format="html" scope="external"/>.

</p>

<p>A sample Kubernetes application has been documented in the section <xref href="k8s-example-guestbook.dita"/> to facilitate verification of 
  the deployed playbooks and configuration. This example is also useful for exploring the new Kubernetes-specific features in 
  the latest Splunk and Sysidg offerings.

</p>
  
<note type="note">The verion of <codeph>kubectl</codeph> used to access the Kubernetes cluster needs to be 1.10 or below. The current release
of <codeph>kubectl</codeph> is not compatible with the version of Kubernetes (1.8) shipped with Docker EE 2.0.</note>  
</section>
  
<section>
<title>Splunk 7.1.2 and Kubernetes</title>  


<p>This minor update to Splunk Enterprise supports monitoring of Kubernetes logs and metrics. Kubernetes metadata is collected by 
  a universal forwarder implemented as a <codeph>Deployment</codeph> (with just one replica), while logs are collected by a 
  universal forwarder running on each Kubernetes node using a <codeph>DaemonSet</codeph>. The integration 
  leverages the open-source Splunk IT Monitoring and Troubleshooting project at
  <xref href="https://github.com/splunk/docker-itmonitoring" format="html" scope="external"/>.  

</p>

<p>This update also includes new versions of Splunk software components - see the section on installing
  the <b>Splunk App for Windows Infrastructure</b> and its dependencies 
  <xref href="splunk-pre-deploy.dita#splunk-pre-deploy/splunk-mvi2-versions">here</xref>.</p>  
  
</section>  
  
<section>
<title>Sysdig and Kubernetes</title>  
  
<p>Sysdig now supports the monitoring of Kubernetes clusters and the playbooks have been updated to make use of this new functionality.
See the section <xref href="deploying-sysdig-k8s.dita"/> for more information. 
</p>  
  
</section>  

<section>
<title>Prometheus and Grafana</title>
  
<p>Prometheus has been updated to version <codeph>v2.3.2</codeph> while Grafana is now at version <codeph>5.2.3</codeph></p>  
  
<note type="note">Prometheus and Grafana do not currently support monitoring Kubernetes worker nodes in this solution and so can only be
used in conjunction with Docker swarm deployments.</note>  
</section>
</body>
</topic>
