<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="restore-ucp-dtr-details">
<title>Restore UCP and DTR</title> 
<body>


<note type="warning">This procedure is aimed at restoring a cluster after a disaster. It assumes you have lost all 
the VMs in your cluster and want to redeploy using data that you backed up earlier.

The solution follows Docker best practice, which means the swarm artifacts are not restored. 
You will need to restore your Docker volumes and your applications (stacks and services) when this procedure is complete.
</note>

<p></p>

<ol>
<li>Ensure that you have completed all the preliminary steps as outlined in the section <xref href="before-restore.dita#before-restore" type="section">Before you restore</xref> </li>
<li>Run the restore playbook
<codeblock>ansible-playbook -i vm_hosts restore.yml</codeblock>
<p>You may need to modify <codeph>restore.yml</codeph> before you run it, depending on what optional components you have deployed.
For example, if you have not deployed Splunk, you will need to comment out the line:</p>
<codeblock>- import_playbook: playbooks/splunk_uf.yml</codeblock>
<p>If not, you will get an error saying that Splunk components could not be restored when you run the playbook.</p>    
</li>
<li>If you are using the image scanning functionality in DTR, you will need to re-download the vulnerability database. 
For more information, see the Docker documentation  <xref href="https://docs.docker.com/datacenter/dtr/2.5/guides/admin/configure/set-up-vulnerability-scans/#get-the-security-scanning-license" format="html" scope="external">here</xref>.</li>
</ol>

<p>You are now ready to restore your Docker volumes and your applications.</p>

</body>
</topic>
