<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="splunk-pre-deploy">
  <title>Before you deploy</title>
  <body>
<section>
<ol>
<li>Select the splunk deployment type and specify the variable
<codeph>monitoring_stack</codeph> in group_vars/vars</li>
<li>If you choose 'splunk', specify the list of indexers using the variable
<codeph>splunk_architecture_forward_servers </codeph>in group_vars/vars</li>
<li>if you choose 'splunk and if you want to use your own certificates to secure the
communications between the indexers and the universal forwaders <ol>
<li>define the variable splunk_ssl in group_vars/vars</li>
<li>put your root CA certificate and your server certificate files in
/root/Docker-Synergy/ops/files/splunk/linux/SPLUNK_HOME/etc/mycerts. For more
information, refer to the section discussing SSL later in this document. </li>
<li>edit the file server.conf in /files/splunk/linux/SPLUNK_HOME/etc/system/local.
Uncomment the [sslConfig] stanza and its content
<codeblock>
[sslConfig]
sslRootCAPath = /opt/splunkforwarder/etc/mycerts/ca.pem
</codeblock>
</li>

</ol>
</li>
<li>Copy the Splunk Universal forwarder packages. The solution currently supports the Linux
64-bit and the Windows 8.1/Windows 10 64-bit forwarders. <ol>
<li>Open https://www.splunk.com/en_us/download/universal-forwarder.html</li>
<li>Download the MSI package for Windows 64 bit and store it in
files/splunk/windows</li>
<li>Download the RPM package for Linux 64-bit (2.6+ kernel Linux distributions) and
store it in files/splunk/linux <note> Both images/packages must be at the same
version, and have the same name, but they should keep their respective extension,
.rpm for linux .msi for windows. For example you will have the following files <ul>
<li>files/splunk/windows/splunkforwarder-7.0.2.msi</li>
<li>files/splunk/linux/splunkforwarder-7.0.2.rpm</li>
</ul>
</note>
</li>
<li>Edit the vars.yml files located in
<codeph>templates\monitoring\&lt;monitoring_stack></codeph>, where
<codeph>&lt;monitoring_stack></codeph> is <b>splunk</b> or <b>splunk_demo</b> and
set the variable <codeph>splunk_architecture_universal_forwarder_package</codeph> to
the name you selected for the package(s), not including the file extension.
<codeblock>
splunk_architecture_universal_forwarder_package: 'splunkforwarder-7.0.2'
</codeblock>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li>Optionnally (advanced), make adjustements in the following folder hierarchies. The files
located here will be copied as-is to the systems running the universal forwarder <ul>
<li>files/splunk/linux/SPLUNK_HOME</li>
<li>files/splunk/linux/DOCKER_TAS</li>
<li>files/splunk/windows/SPLUNK_HOME</li>
</ul>
</li>

</ol>
</section>
  </body>
</topic>
