<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="verify-prereqs-table">
  <title></title>
  <body>
    <table id="verify-prereqs-table-content" frame="none">
			<title>Summary of information required</title>

			<tgroup cols="2">
				<colspec colnum="1" colname="c1" align="left"/>
				<colspec colnum="2" colname="c2" align="left"/>
				<thead>
					<row>
						<entry>Component </entry>
						<entry>Details </entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry>Virtual Infrastructure </entry>
						<entry>The FQDN of your vCenter server and the name of the Datacenter. You
							will also need administrator credentials in order to create templates,
							and spin up virtual machines. </entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>L3 Network requirements </entry>
						<entry>You will need one IP address for each and every VM configured in the
							Ansible inventory (see the section “Editing the inventory”). At the time
							of writing, the example inventory configures 14 virtual machines so you
							would need to allocate 14 IP addresses to use this example inventory.
							Note that the Ansible playbooks do not support DHCP so you need static
							IP addresses. All the IPs should be in the same subnet. You will also
							have to specify the size of the subnet (for example /22 or /24) and the
							L3 gateway for this subnet. </entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>DNS </entry>
						<entry>You will need to know the IP addresses of your DNS server. In
							addition, all the VMs you configure in the inventory should have their
							names registered in DNS. In addition, you will need the domain name to
							use for configuring the virtual machines (such as <xref format="html"
								scope="external" href="http://example.com/">example.com</xref>)
						</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>NTP Services </entry>
						<entry>You need time services configured in your environment. The solution
							being deployed (including Docker) uses certificates and certificates are
							time sensitive. You will need the IP addresses of your time servers
							(NTP). </entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>RHEL Subscription </entry>
						<entry>A RHEL subscription is required to pull extra packages that are not
							on the DVD. </entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Docker Prerequisites </entry>
						<entry>You will need a URL for the official Docker EE software download and
							a license file. Refer to the Docker documentation to learn more about
							this URL and the licensing requirements at: <xref format="html"
								scope="external"
								href="https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/linux/docker-ee/rhel/"
								>https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/linux/docker-ee/rhel/</xref>
							in the section entitled “Docker EE repository URL” </entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Proxy </entry>
						<entry>The playbooks pull the Docker packages from the Internet. If your
							environment accesses the Internet through a proxy, you will need the
							details of the proxy including the fully qualified domain name and the
							port number. </entry>
					</row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
  </body>
</topic>
