<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="playbook-updates-svt">
<title id="changes-playbooks-svt">Playbook updates</title>  
<body>
 
<p>An overview of all the playbooks is available <xref href="../playbooks-overview.dita">here</xref>. This section outlines the changes 
    from the previous release of the playbooks.</p>
 
<p>The playbooks that were available previously as part of the <codeph>Dev Edition</codeph> have been removed in this release, leaving a 
single codebase that currently focuses on operations functionality. Some of the development-specific stacks may be reinstated in a future release.</p>
<p/> 
    
<p>Windows-specific playbooks have now been merged into the core, so running <codeph>site.yml</codeph> will automatically install
Windows workers, if they are declared in the inventory. Non-core playbooks such as those for the monitoring stacks will automatically install
any required Windows software.
</p>    
    
<p>The  <ph conkeyref="conrefs/hardware-string"/>-specific playbooks releated to backup have been redesigned:</p>
<ul>
<li><codeph>playbooks/config_dummy_vms_for_docker_volumes_backup.yml</codeph> now uses the same mechanism as the 
    <codeph>playbooks/create_vms.yml</codeph> to deploy the dummy VM.</li>   
    
<li><codeph>playbooks/config_simplivity_backups.yml</codeph> has been refactored to be more modular, with separate plays for
creating backup policies, populating policies with rules, and assigning backup policies to VMs. The reliability of the 
playbook has been improved by minimizing the number of concurrent operations to the least number of nodes. The playbook 
creates the policies based on the <codeph>backup_policies</codeph> data structure in the <codeph>group_vars/vars</codeph> file.
Any exisiting policies will not be over-written when running the playbook, but rules attached to the policies will be updated
based on the information supplied in the variables file. If you omit the <codeph>node_policy</codeph> variable for a group of nodes,
 no policy will be assigned by default.
</li>
</ul>
       
    
<p><codeph>playbooks/config_storage_driver.yml</codeph> prepares drives for local Docker volumes and container images. 
    It also configures Docker with either the <codeph>overlay2</codeph> storage driver (the default) or the 
    <codeph>devicemapper</codeph> storage driver, depending on the value of the <codeph>docker_storage_driver</codeph>
    in <codeph>group_vars/vars</codeph>. This playbook was previously called <codeph>playbooks/config_docker_lvs.yml</codeph>
    in earlier releases of the solution.
</p>    
  
<p></p>  
  
</body>
</topic>
